Write a doc on how x/wasm uses IBC (#214)
CosmWasm/wasmd: x/wasm/IBC.md

and *Channel*
  
## Workflow

Establishing *Clients* and *Connections* is out of the scope of this
module and must be created by the same means as for `ibc-transfer`
(via the cli or otherwise). `x/wasm` will bind one or more *Ports* to
handle messages for the contracts. How *Channels* are established
is an open question for discussion.

The following actions are only available for `IBCEnabled` contracts:

* Dispatch `IBCSendMsg` - this sends an IBC packet over an established
  channel. This is returned from `handle` just like any other `CosmosMsg`
  (For mocks, we will trigger this externally, later only
  valid contract addresses should be able to do so).
* Handle `IBCRecvPacket` - when another chain sends a packet destined to
  an IBCEnabled contract, this will be routed to the proper contract
  and call an exposed function for this purpose.
* Handle `IBCAckPacket` - The original sender of `IBCSendMsg` will
  get this callback eventually if the message was successfully
  processed on the other chain
* Handle `IBCErrorPacket` - The original sender of `IBCSendMsg` will 
  get this callback eventually if the message failed to be
  processed on the other chain (for any reason)

> 

Reviewer: We need to let contracts handle `timeouts` where the packet was not delivered in time for any reason so that they can revert their operation

For mocks, all the `IBCxxxPacket` commands are routed to some
Golang stub handler, but containing the contract address, so we
can perform contract-specific actions for each packet.

There are open questions on how exactly the various `IBCxxPacket`
messages are routed to a contract, as well as related to the
channel lifecycle. (Can a contract open a channel? How do we
allow contracts to participate in protocol version negotiation

> when establishing a channel?)

Reviewer: This would be nice features for dynamic IBC

## Ports and Channels

There are two main proposals on how to map these concepts to
contracts. We will describe both in detail, with arguments
pro and contra, to select one approach.

> 

Reviewer: I like "One Port per Contract" to start with now that the size limit is moved. Just thinking can there be scenarios scenarios where 1 port is not enough in dynamic IBC?

### One Port per Contract

This may be the most straight-forward mapping, treating each contract 
like a module. It does lead to very long portIDs however. Make special
attention to both the Channel establishment (which should be compatible
with standard ICS20 modules without changes on their part), as well
as how contracts can properly identify their counterparty.

* Upon `Instantiate`, if a contract is *IBC Enabled*, we dynamically 
  bind a port for this contract. The port name is `wasm-<contract address>`,

>   eg. `wasm-cosmos1hmdudppzceg27qsuq707tjg8rkgj7g5hnvnw29`

Reviewer: We should return this port either with ContractInfo or some other endpoint to make it explicit. I can imagine contract port lookups can become an issue if we leave this completely to the clients. The port naming schema   may change...?

* If a *Channel* is being established with a registered `wasm-xyz` port,
  the `x/wasm.Keeper` will handle this and call into the appropriate
  contract to determine supported protocol versions during the
  [`ChanOpenTry` and `ChanOpenAck` phases](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/overview.html#channels).
  (See [Channel Handshake Version Negotiation](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/custom.html#channel-handshake-version-negotiation))
* Both the *Port* and the *Channel* are fully owned by one contract.
* `x/wasm` only accepts *ORDERED Channels* for simplicity of contract
  correctness.
* When sending a packet, the CosmWasm contract must specify the *ChannelID*

>   (and remote *PortID*?), which is generally provided by the external client

Reviewer: We would need channel + port to send the packet

  which understands which channels it wishes to communicate over.
* When sending a packet, the contract can set a custom identifier (of
  max 64 characters) that it can use to look this up later.
* When receiving a Packet (or Ack or Error), the contracts receives the
  *ChannelID* as well as remote *PortID* (and *ClientID*???) that is
  communicating.
* When receiving an Ack or Error packet, the contract also receives the

>   same identifier that it set on Send (`x/wasm` handles mapping between this

Reviewer: I would prefer to pass the origin message payload here. It is available in the IBC packets. This would leave it to the contract to store and pass any identifier.

    The problem with this is that if two contracts from chainA want to
    connect to the same contracts on chainB, they will want to claim the
    same *ChannelID* and *PortID*. Not sure how to differentiate multiple
    parties in this way.
  * Other ideas: have a special field we send on `OnChanOpenInit` that
    specifies the destination contract, and allow any *ChannelID*.
    However, looking at [`OnChanOpenInit` function signature](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/custom.html#implement-ibcmodule-interface-and-callbacks),
    I don't see a place to put this extra info, without abusing the version field,
    which is a [specified field](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/custom.html#channel-handshake-version-negotiation):
    ```
    Versions must be strings but can implement any versioning structure. 
    If your application plans to have linear releases then semantic versioning is recommended.
    ... 
    Valid version selection includes selecting a compatible version identifier with a subset 
    of features supported by your application for that version.
    ...    
    ICS20 currently implements basic string matching with a
    single supported version.

>     ```

Reviewer: We could also put the sender/ receiver contract addresses as fields in the IBC packets we pass.

# IBC specification

This documents how CosmWasm contracts are expected to interact with IBC.

## General Concepts

> **IBC Enabled** - when instantiating a contract, we detect if it supports IBC messages

Author: We use "allowed_features" in cosmwasm-vm already to ensure the contract is compatible with the vm (if it makes use of non-essential commands, the vm must also support them).

We expose which features the contract requested to go-cosmwasm, but currently don't pass that back to the sdk. We can just return that, and any contract that wishes to use the ibc messages will auto-request that feature and be detectable. We do this with staking, and chain-specific extensions now (like terra)

  This will (likely? @cwgoes?) be accompanied by `IBCPacketFailed`
  callbacks for all the in-progress packets that were not processed before
  it closed, as well as all pending acks.

We may want to expose some basic queries of IBC State to the contract.
We should check if this is useful to the contract and if it opens up
any possible DoS:

* `ListMyChannels` - return a list of all channel IDs (along with remote PortID)
  that are bound to this contract's Port.
* `ListPendingPackets` - given a channelID owned by the contract, return all packets
  in that channel, that were sent by this chain, for which no acknowledgement or timeout
  has been received

For mocks, all the `IBCxxxPacket` commands are routed to some
Golang stub handler, but containing the contract address, so we
can perform contract-specific actions for each packet.

## Contract Details

Here we map out the workflow with the exact arguments passed with those calls 
from the Go side (which we will use with our mock), and then a 
proposal for multiplexing this over fewer wasm exports (define some rust types)

Messages:

```go
type IBCSendMsg struct {
    ChannelID string

>     RemotePort string // do we need both? isn't channel enough once it is established???

Reviewer: >... a single instance of an IBC module may communicate on the same port with any number of other modules and and IBC will correctly route all packets to the relevant module using the (channelID, portID tuple)

https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/overview.html#capabilities

Author: @cwgoes can you explain this to me?

I understand **connection** as IP-level connection (the linked docs refers to **channel** as like IP connection)

A channel is like TCP/UDP connection which is established with source and remote ports via handshake. Once the channel is established, it has a well-defined port on both sides and simply the channelID should identify which client to use and the source/dest port, right?

Reviewer 2: Not quite; the terminology is a little different than TCP/IP.

A *connection* exists between two chains and has a unique identifier on each chain. Many channels may use one connection.

A *channel* has a unique identifier per-port, so the combination of port identifier & channel identifier is required to uniquely identify a channel on a single chain. A channel references a single connection, which it will utilise to verify state (that is, it will utilise the client associated with the connection).

Of course, if a contract is always bound to a fixed port, the contract can just identify channels by the channel identifier, and the wasmd runtime can look up the port, presumably.

// same question as for IBCPacketAck
func (c *mockContract) IBCPacketFailed(ctx sdk.Context, k *wasm.Keeper, env IBCInfo, originalMsg []byte, errorMsg string) (response []byte, err error) {}

type IBCInfo struct {
	// PortID of the remote contract???
	RemotePortID string
	// PortID of the our contract???
	OurPortID string
	// ChannelID packet was sent on
	ChannelID string
	Packet    *IBCPacketInfo `json:"packet,omitempty"`
}

// do we need/want all this info?
type IBCPacketInfo struct {
	Sequence uint64
	// identifies the port on the sending chain.
	SourcePort string
	// identifies the channel end on the sending chain.
	SourceChannel string
	// block height after which the packet times out
	TimeoutHeight uint64
	// block timestamp (in nanoseconds) after which the packet times out
	TimeoutTimestamp uint64
}
```

Channel Lifecycle:

**TODO**

Queries:

**TODO**

### Contract (Wasm) entrypoints

**TODO**

## Ports and Channels Discussion

We decided on "one port per contract", especially after the IBC team raised
the max length on port names to allow `wasm-<bech32 address>` to be a valid port.
Here are the arguments for "one port for x/wasm" vs "one port per contract"

> ### One Port per Contract

Reviewer: 👍  
As discussed on chat I want to add some ideas for future versions:
- multiple ports per contract
- elastic ports that can be assigned to different contracts
- transfer of channels to another contract
if there is some demand for this in the community...
We likely need a different naming schema for them to do proper routing

Author: We can add a "future directions" section. But make it clear what the current spec is.

This may be the most straight-forward mapping, treating each contract 
like a module. It does lead to very long portIDs however. Make special
attention to both the Channel establishment (which should be compatible
with standard ICS20 modules without changes on their part), as well
as how contracts can properly identify their counterparty.

* Upon `Instantiate`, if a contract is *IBC Enabled*, we dynamically 
  bind a port for this contract. The port name is `wasm-<contract address>`,
  eg. `wasm-cosmos1hmdudppzceg27qsuq707tjg8rkgj7g5hnvnw29`
* If a *Channel* is being established with a registered `wasm-xyz` port,
  the `x/wasm.Keeper` will handle this and call into the appropriate
  contract to determine supported protocol versions during the
  [`ChanOpenTry` and `ChanOpenAck` phases](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/overview.html#channels).
  (See [Channel Handshake Version Negotiation](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/custom.html#channel-handshake-version-negotiation))
* Both the *Port* and the *Channel* are fully owned by one contract.
* Question: `x/wasm` only accepts *ORDERED Channels* for simplicity of contract

>   correctness? Or should we allow the contract to decide?

Reviewer: IMHO there is no need to limit this in wasmd. Let the contract (framework) decide so that we have the most flexible solution in wasmd for future use cases.

Author: Okay, we allow both ordered and unordered. And recommend ordered unless the developer can reason about distributed systems well.

* When sending a packet, the CosmWasm contract must specify the *ChannelID*
  and remote *PortID*, which is generally provided by the external client
  which understands which channels it wishes to communicate over.

> * When sending a packet, the contract can set a custom identifier (of

Reviewer: This would go into the contract (application) frame. There is no need to support this in wasmd.

Author: Agreed

like a module. It does lead to very long portIDs however. Pay special attention to both the Channel establishment 
(which should be compatible with standard ICS20 modules without changes on their part), as well
as how contracts can properly identify their counterparty.

(We considered on port for the `x/wasm` module and multiplexing on it, but [dismissed that idea](#rejected-ideas))

* Upon `Instantiate`, if a contract is *IBC Enabled*, we dynamically 
  bind a port for this contract. The port name is `wasm-<contract address>`,
  eg. `wasm-cosmos1hmdudppzceg27qsuq707tjg8rkgj7g5hnvnw29`
* If a *Channel* is being established with a registered `wasm-xyz` port,
  the `x/wasm.Keeper` will handle this and call into the appropriate
  contract to determine supported protocol versions during the
  [`ChanOpenTry` and `ChanOpenAck` phases](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/overview.html#channels).
  (See [Channel Handshake Version Negotiation](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/custom.html#channel-handshake-version-negotiation))
* Both the *Port* and the *Channel* are fully owned by one contract.

> * `x/wasm` will allow both *ORDERED* and *UNORDERED* channel and pass that mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `x/wasm` will allow both *ORDERED* and *UNORDERED* channels and pass that mode
```

  down to the contract in `OnChanOpenTry`, so the contract can decide if it accepts
  the mode. We will recommend the contract developers stick with *ORDERED* channels
  unless they can reason about async packet timing.

> * When sending a packet, the CosmWasm contract must specify the *ChannelID*

Reviewer 2: If the contract specifies a local port ID & channel ID, that will uniquely determine the remote port ID & channel ID.

Author: Okay, and since each contract only has one PortID, we can just auto-complete that part in `x/wasm`. The contract can specify `ChannelID` (it has a local namespace), and we can then generate `(PortID, ChannelID)` to use elsewhere as the global identifier.

I finally got this, makes a lot clearer

to other contracts:

* `IBCSendMsg` - this sends an IBC packet over an established channel. 
* `IBCOpenChannel` - given a ConnectionID and a remote Port, this will request
  to open a new channel with the given chain
* `IBCCloseChannel` - given an existing channelID bound to this contract's Port,
  initiate the closing sequence and reject all pending packets.

They are returned from `handle` just like any other `CosmosMsg`
(For mocks, we will trigger this externally, later only valid contract addresses 
should be able to do so).

An "IBC Enabled" contract must support the following callbacks from the runtime
(we will likely multiplex many over one wasm export, as we do with handle, but these 
are the different calls we must support):

Packet Lifecycle:

* `IBCRecvPacket` - when another chain sends a packet destined to
  an IBCEnabled contract, this will be routed to the proper contract
  and call an exposed function for this purpose.
* `IBCPacketAck` - The original sender of `IBCSendMsg` will
  get this callback eventually if the message was
  processed on the other chain (this may be either a success or an error,
  but comes from the app-level protocol, not the IBC protocol).

> * `IBCPacketDropped` - The original sender of `IBCSendMsg` will 

Reviewer 2: You can name it whatever you like, but this is all called a "timeout" in IBC (including channel closure)

Author: Okay, I wasn't sure about all the different cases (timeout, channel closed, client no longer valid...)

I will use the standard naming.

  get this callback eventually if the message failed to be
  processed on the other chain (for timeout, closed channel, or 
  other IBC-level failure)
  
Note: We may add some helpers inside the contract to map `IBCPacketAck` / `IBCPacketDropped`
to `IBCPacketSucceeded` / `IBCPacketFailed` assuming they use the standard envelope. However,
we decided not to enforce this on the Go-level, to allow contracts to communicate using protocols
that do not use this envelope.

Channel Lifecycle Hooks:

* `OnChanOpenTry` - this is called when another chain attempts to open
  a channel with this contract. It provides the protocol versions that

>   the initiate expects, and the contract can reject it or accept it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the initiating party expects, and the contract can reject it or accept it
```

  and return the protocol version it will communicate with.
* `OnChanOpenConfirm` - this is called when the other party has agreed
  to the channel and all negotiation is over. This will be called exactly
  once for any established channel, and the contract should record these
  open channels in the internal state.
* `OnChanClosed` - this is called when an existing channel is closed
  for any reason, allowing the client to update the state there.

>   This will (likely? @cwgoes?) be accompanied by `IBCPacketFailed`

Reviewer 2: Do you mean `IBCPacketDropped`? Yes, packets can be timed-out after a channel is closed

* `IBCRecvPacket` - when another chain sends a packet destined to
  an IBCEnabled contract, this will be routed to the proper contract
  and call a function exposed for this purpose.
* `IBCPacketAck` - The original sender of `IBCSendMsg` will
  get this callback eventually if the message was
  processed on the other chain (this may be either a success or an error,
  but comes from the app-level protocol, not the IBC protocol).
* `IBCPacketTimeout` - The original sender of `IBCSendMsg` will 
  get this callback eventually if the message failed to be
  processed on the other chain (for timeout, closed channel, or 
  other IBC-level failure)
  
Note: We may add some helpers inside the contract to map `IBCPacketAck` / `IBCPacketTimeout`
to `IBCPacketSucceeded` / `IBCPacketFailed` assuming they use the standard envelope. However,
we decided not to enforce this on the Go-level, to allow contracts to communicate using protocols
that do not use this envelope.

### Channel Lifecycle Hooks

If you look at the [4 step process](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/overview.html#channels) for
channel handshakes, we simplify this from the view of the contract:

> 1. Channels *cannot* be opened by external clients, only the contract can initiate opening

Author: Sure, I guess that makes sense and is flexible. Then the contract on the initiating end should also have a say if this is a reasonable connection before sending the init message to the other chain

   can apply custom logic. It provides the protocol versions that the initiating party expects, and 
   the contract can reject the connection or accept it and return the protocol version it will communicate with.
   Implementing this requires that we support [ADR 025](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/architecture/adr-025-ibc-passive-channels.md).
   TODO: check with Agoric and cwgoes to upstream any Cosmos SDK changes so this can work out of the box.
3. `OnChanOpened` is called on the contract for both `OnChanOpenAck` and `OnChanOpenConfirm` containing
   the final version string (counterparty version). This gives a chance to abort the process
   if we realize this doesn't work. Or save the info (we may need to define this channel uses an older version
   of the protocol for example).
4. `OnChanClosed` is called on both sides if the channel is closed for any reason, allowing them to
   perform any cleanup. This will be followed by `IBCPacketTimeout` callbacks for all the in-progress 
   packets that were not processed before it closed, as well as all pending acks (pending the relayer
   to provide that).

We require the following callbacks on the contract

> * `OnChanNegotiate` - called on receiving end for `OnChanOpenTry`. 

Author: Is there much difference between `OnChanOpenInit` (if the version / channel / etc is provided by a 3rd party) and `OnChanOpenTry`? Maybe `OnChanNegotiate` can just be a check that the ordering and version (and remote port?) is acceptable.

* `OnChanOpened` - called on both sides after the initial 2 steps have passed to confirm the version used
* `OnChanClosed` - this is called when an existing channel is closed for any reason

Note @cwgoes I am rather confused by 
[the handshake docs](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/custom.html#channel-handshake-version-negotiation)
In particular "ChanOpenTry callback should verify that the MsgChanOpenTry.Version is valid and that 
MsgChanOpenTry.CounterpartyVersion is valid.". Where does the CounterpartyVersion come from?
I thought the module would accept the Version and decide on it's own CounterpartyVersion. We assume the
relayer makes that decision????

### Queries

We may want to expose some basic queries of IBC State to the contract.
We should check if this is useful to the contract and if it opens up
any possible DoS:

> * `GetPortID` - return PortID given a contract address

Author: Yeah, this also let's you get the port id for other contracts you know of. But mainly to pull it out of some custom Env struct.

* `ListChannels` - return a list of all (portID, channelID) pairs
  that are bound to a given port.
* `ListPendingPackets` - given a (portID, channelID) identifier, return all packets
  in that channel, that have been sent by this chain, but for which no acknowledgement 

>   or timeout has yet been received

Author: `GetCounterparty` returns the (portID, channelID) on the remote chain?

>   or timeout has yet been received

Reviewer: yes, exactly

## Contract Details

Here we map out the workflow with the exact arguments passed with those calls 
from the Go side (which we will use with our mock), and then a 
proposal for multiplexing this over fewer wasm exports (define some rust types)

Messages:

```go
package messages

type IBCSendMsg struct {
    // This is our contract-local ID
    ChannelID string
    Msg []byte
    // optional fields (or do we need exactly/at least one of these?)
    TimeoutHeight uint64

>     TimeoutTimestamp uint64

Reviewer: We need the `Sequence` here as well to have all fields for an [ibc packet](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/ibc/04-channel/types/packet.go#L30)
`SourcePortID` is known to us from the contract context and we can lookup the counterpart with the channelID:portID pair

Author: The sequence should not be set by the contract, but auto-assigned by the keeper/ibc module. 

>  SourcePortID is known to us from the contract context and we can lookup the counterpart with the channelID:portID pair

Yes, I should add that as a document. The ChannelID (and context-contained PortID) should be enough to uniquely identify the channel and remote counterparty.

Reviewer: 👍  correct. we can use `channelKeeper.GetNextSequenceSend(ctx, sourcePort, sourceChannel)` to get the next sequence to build the package. Do I understand the workflow correct?
1. the contract returns an IBCSendMsg
2. in our handler_plugin we create the `channeltypes.Packet`
3. we send the packet to `channelKeeper.SendPacket`
3a. within the handler_plugin
3b return it and send it from the keeper
4. relayer sends packet to other chain....

Author: That sounds correct.

Now that you mention the details of the HandlerPlugin interface, it doesn't by itself have the ability to query into the channelKeeper to get that info. I don't want to push that responsibility down to the contract and I guess we will have to extend the HandlerPlugin interface to have more capabilities during the transform.

}

// note that a contract has exactly one port, so the SourcePortID is implied
type IBCOpenChannel struct {
    // an establish connection between the two chains that we will multiplex on top of
    ConnectionID string
    // This is the identifier we will use locally
    LocalChannelID string

    // note: local port ID is implied as contract only has one port
    RemotePortID string
    // this will be the channel id on the remote side. 
    // ideally we can remove this soon
    // https://github.com/cosmos/ics/issues/465
    RemoteChannelID string 

    Version Version
    Order channeltypes.Order

}

type IBCCloseChannel struct {
    ChannelID string
}

// use type from https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/ibc/03-connection/types/version.go ?
// or is there a better generic model?

> type Version string

Reviewer: `string` is the most flexible one. Let's not restrict this here.

Author: Great, we can just add some suggestions of optional versioning schemes

```

> Packet callbacks:

Reviewer: I will comment on the callbacks tomorrow with some more inspiration from the spike. Or we merge this and I do a PR on top

    RemotePortID string
    RemoteChannelID string
}

type ChannelClosedInfo struct {
    // local id for the Channel that is being shut down
    ChannelID string
}
```

Queries:

These are callbacks that the contract can make, calling into a QueryPlugin.
The general type definition for a `QueryPlugin` is
`func(ctx sdk.Context, request *wasmTypes.IBCQuery) ([]byte, error)`.
All other info (like the contract address we are querying for) must be passed in
from the contract (which knows it's own address).

Here we just defined the request and response types (which will be serialized into `[]byte`)

```go
package queries

type QueryPort struct {
   ContractAddress string
}

type QueryPortResponse struct {
   PortID string
}

type QueryChannels struct {
    // exactly one of these must be set. ContractAddress is a shortcut to save the Contract->PortID mapping
    PortID string
	ContractAddress string
}

type QueryChannelsResponse struct {
   ChannelIDs []ChannelMetadata
}

type ChannelMetadata struct {
    // Local portID, channelID is our unique identifier
    PortID string
    ChannelID string
    RemotePortID string
    Order channeltypes.Order

>     CounterpartyVerson Version

Reviewer: The `channel.version` is not fully clear to me. Either it is the counterparty version, the local one or both as they are the same. Go doc states: " opaque channel version, which is agreed upon during the handshake"

Reviewer: > During the handshake process, two ends of a channel come to agreement on a version bytestring associated with that channel. 

https://github.com/cosmos/ics/tree/master/spec/ics-004-channel-and-packet-semantics#versioning

Author: You are right, I was confused with `ChannelInfo` above (which is used *during* the negotiation process).

Once established, there is just a Version.

}

> type QueryPendingPackets struct {

Reviewer: Can be unrelayed acknowledgements or unrelayed packet commitments. 
The CLI has a ` --acknowledgements` flag for this

Author: Good point. I would make 2 separate queries here.

* One for pending packets (our requests).
* The other for pending acknowlegdements (our responses)

    // Always required
    ChannelID string

    // exactly one of these must be set. ContractAddress is a shortcut to save the Contract->PortID mapping
    PortID string
	ContractAddress string

> }

Reviewer: the CLI has `--sequences :comma separated list of packet sequence numbers (default [])` flag. Not sure what it does.

Author: Interesting find. I guess you can select details of some by sequence number.

I would leave that out and add it later if needed. Even adding these query packet functionality seems questionably useful for a contract (maybe to see if there is congestion). Hunting specific packets seems more useful for client side visualization, but not here

  eg. `wasm-cosmos1hmdudppzceg27qsuq707tjg8rkgj7g5hnvnw29`
* If a *Channel* is being established with a registered `wasm-xyz` port,
  the `x/wasm.Keeper` will handle this and call into the appropriate
  contract to determine supported protocol versions during the
  [`ChanOpenTry` and `ChanOpenAck` phases](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/overview.html#channels).
  (See [Channel Handshake Version Negotiation](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/ibc/custom.html#channel-handshake-version-negotiation))
* Both the *Port* and the *Channel* are fully owned by one contract.
* `x/wasm` will allow both *ORDERED* and *UNORDERED* channel and pass that mode
  down to the contract in `OnTryOpenChannel`, so the contract can decide if it accepts
  the mode. We will recommend the contract developers stick with *ORDERED* channels
  unless they can reason about async packet timing.
* When sending a packet, the CosmWasm contract must specify the *ChannelID*
  and remote *PortID*, which is generally provided by the external client
  which understands which channels it wishes to communicate over.
* When receiving a Packet (or Ack or Error), the contracts receives the

>   *ChannelID* as well as remote *PortID* (and *ClientID*???) that is

Reviewer: ClientID is not available by the packet data out of the box but if this is required we should add a "get clientID by channel" to the supported queries.
Instead we have from the packet: 
```
	Sequence uint64
	// identifies the port on the sending chain.
	SourcePort string
	// identifies the channel end on the sending chain.
	SourceChannel string
	// block height after which the packet times out
	TimeoutHeight uint64
	// block timestamp (in nanoseconds) after which the packet times out
	TimeoutTimestamp uint64
```
and the destination PortID, ChannelID

  an IBCEnabled contract, this will be routed to the proper contract
  and call an exposed function for this purpose.
* `IBCPacketAck` - The original sender of `IBCSendMsg` will
  get this callback eventually if the message was
  processed on the other chain (this may be either a success or an error,
  but comes from the app-level protocol, not the IBC protocol).
* `IBCPacketDropped` - The original sender of `IBCSendMsg` will 
  get this callback eventually if the message failed to be
  processed on the other chain (for timeout, closed channel, or 
  other IBC-level failure)
  
Note: We may add some helpers inside the contract to map `IBCPacketAck` / `IBCPacketDropped`
to `IBCPacketSucceeded` / `IBCPacketFailed` assuming they use the standard envelope. However,
we decided not to enforce this on the Go-level, to allow contracts to communicate using protocols

> that do not use this envelope.

Reviewer: 👍  good to add the explanation
